.. _hooking-wp-cron-into-the-system-task-scheduler:

Hooking WP-Cron Into the System Task Scheduler
==============================================

.. contents::

As previously mentioned, WP-Cron does not run continuously, which can be
an issue if there are critical tasks that must run on time. There is an
easy solution for this. Simply set up your system’s task scheduler to
run on the intervals you desire (or at the specific time needed). The
easiest solution is to use a tool to make a web request to the
wp-cron.php file.

After scheduling the task on your system, there is one more step to
complete. WordPress will continue to run WP-Cron on each page load. This
is no longer necessary and will contribute to extra resource usage on
your server. WP-Cron can be disabled in the wp-config.php file. Open the
wp-config.php file for editing and add the following line:

.. code:: php

   define('DISABLE_WP_CRON', true);

.. _header-n6:

Windows 
--------

Windows calls their time based scheduling system the Task Scheduler. It
can be accessed via the **Administrative Tools** in the control panel.

How you setup the task varies with server setup. One method is to use
PowerShell and a Basic Task. After creating a Basic Task the following
command can be used to call the WordPress Cron script.

.. code:: shell

   powershell "Invoke-WebRequest http://YOUR_SITE_URL/wp-cron.php"

`Top
↑ <https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/cron/hooking-wp-cron-into-the-system-task-scheduler/#top>`__

.. _header-n11:

Mac OS X and Linux 
-------------------

Mac OS X and Linux both use cron as their time based scheduling system.
It is typically access from the terminal with the ``crontab -e``
command. It should be noted that tasks will be run as a regular user or
as root depending on the system user running the command.

Cron has a specific syntax that needs to be followed and contains the
following parts:

-  Minute

-  Hour

-  Day of month

-  Month

-  Day of week

-  Command to execute

|image0|

If a command should be run regardless of one of the time sections an
asterisk (*) should be used. For example if you wanted to run a command
every 15 minutes regardless of the hour, day, or month it would look
like:

.. code:: shell

   */15 * * * * command

Many servers have ``wget`` installed and this is an easy tool to call
the WordPress Cron script.

.. code:: shell

   wget --delete-after http://YOUR_SITE_URL/wp-cron.php

Note: without *–-delete-after* option, *wget* would save the output of
the *HTTP GET* request.

A daily call to your site’s WordPress Cron that triggers at midnight
every night could look similar to:

.. code:: shell

   0 0 * * * wget --delete-after http://YOUR_SITE_URL/wp-cron.php

.. |image0| image:: https://developer.wordpress.org/files/2014/10/plugin-wp-cron-cron-scheduling-300x150.png
   :target: https://developer.wordpress.org/files/2014/10/plugin-wp-cron-cron-scheduling.png
