.. _jquery:

jQuery
======

.. contents::

.. _header-n3:

Using jQuery
------------

Your jQuery script runs on the user’s browser after your WordPress
webpage is received. A basic jQuery statement has two parts: a selector
that determines which HTML elements the code applies to, and an action
or event, which determines what the code does or what it reacts to. The
basic event statement looks like this:

.. code:: javascript

   jQuery.(selector).event(function);

When an event, such as a mouse click, occurs in an HTML element selected
by the selector, the function that is defined inside the final set of
parentheses is executed.

All the following code examples are based on this HTML page content.
Assume it appears on your plugin’s admin settings screen, defined by the
file ``myplugin_settings.php``. It is a simple table with radio buttons
next to each title.

.. code:: php

   </pre>
   <form id="radioform">
    <table>
     <tbody>
      <tr>
       <td><input class="pref" checked="checked" name="book" type="radio" value="Sycamore Row" />Sycamore Row</td>
       <td>John Grisham</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
       <td><input class="pref" name="book" type="radio" value="Dark Witch" />Dark Witch</td>
       <td>Nora Roberts</td>
      </tr>
     </tbody>
    </table>
   </form>
   <pre>

The output could look something like this on your settings page.

.. figure:: https://make.wordpress.org/docs/files/2013/11/pdh-ajax-example.png
   :alt: 

In the `article on
AJAX <https://developer.wordpress.org/plugin/javascript/ajax/>`__, we
will build an AJAX exchange that saves the user selection in usermeta
and adds the number of posts tagged with the selected title. Not a very
practical application, but it illustrates all the important steps.
jQuery code can either reside in an external file or be output to the
page inside a block. We will focus on the external file variation
because passing values from PHP requires special attention. The same
code can be output to the page if that seems more expedient to you.

.. _header-n12:

Selector and Event
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The selector is the same form as CSS selectors: ``".class"`` or
``"#id"``. There’s many `more
forms <http://api.jquery.com/category/selectors/>`__, but these are the
two you will frequently use. In our example, we will use class
``".pref"``. There’s also a slew of possible
`events <http://api.jquery.com/category/events/>`__, one you will likely
use a lot is *‘click’*. In our example we will use *‘change’* to capture
a radio button selection. Be aware that jQuery events are often named
somewhat differently than those with JavaScript. So far, after we add in
an empty anonymous function, our example statement looks like this:

.. code:: javascript

   $.(".pref").change(function(){
       /*do stuff*/
   });

This code will “do stuff” when any element of the “pref” class changes.

--------------

   **Note:** This code snippet, and all examples on this page, are for
   illustrating the use of AJAX. The code is not suitable for production
   environments because related operations such as
   `sanitization <https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-security/securing-input/>`__,
   `security <https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-security/user-capabilities-nonces/#nonces>`__,
   `error handling <http://www.sitepoint.com/error-handling-in-php/>`__,
   and
   `internationalization <https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/javascript/internationalization/>`__
   have been intentionally omitted. Be sure to always address these
   important operations in your production code.

--------------
